kb for renewing expired harvester cloud credentials (#60)
harvester/harvesterhci.io: kb/2024-05-17/modify_cloud_credential_ttl.md

---
title: Renew Harvester cloud credentials
description: How to renew expired Harvester cloud credentials when using Rancher 2.8.x.
slug: renew_harvester_cloud_credentials
authors:
  - name: Gaurav Mehta
    title: Staff Software Engineer
    url: https://github.com/ibrokethecloud
    image_url: https://github.com/ibrokethecloud.png
  - name: Moritz Röhrich 
    title: Senior Quality Assurance Engineer
    url: https://github.com/m-ildefons
    image_url: https://github.com/m-ildefons.png
tags: [harvester, cloud credentials, rancher]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

> ## Kubeconfig token expiry in Rancher 2.8.x
> 
> Rancher 2.8.x has introduced a new [kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/api/api-tokens#kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes) setting. As highlighted in the document the default value for this setting is 30 days.
> 
> A side effect of this issue, has been the expiry of kubeconfig tokens used by rancher in provisioning downstream clusters on Harvester.
> 
> When the cloud credential token expires, the end users cannot perform any further cluster management operations on downstream clusters on Harvester. An issue tracking the same is available [here.](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/44912)
> 
> **NOTE:** This only impacts Harvester cloud credentials created after installing or upgrading to Rancher 2.8.x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Expiration of kubeconfig tokens in Rancher 2.8.x

In Rancher 2.8.x, the default value of the [kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/api/api-tokens#kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes) setting is `30` days.

A side effect of using this default value is the expiration of authentication tokens embedded in kubeconfigs that Rancher uses to provision guest Kubernetes clusters on Harvester. When such tokens expire, Rancher loses the ability to perform management operations for the corresponding Rancher-managed guest Kubernetes clusters. [Issue #44912](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/44912) tracks the issue described in this article.

:::info important
The issue affects only guest Kubernetes clusters running on Harvester that use cloud credentials created after installing or upgrading to Rancher v2.8.x.
:::
```

## Workaround

> Users can patch the expired harvester cloud credential to the use a new api token as follows:
> 
> 1. Identify the expired cloud credential for the cluster
> ![identify-credentials](./imgs/identify-cloud-credential.png)
> 
> 2. Generate a new rancher api token with "No Scope". Users can custom the ttl for their token, a custom value of 0 results in tokens that do not expire.
> ![api-token](./imgs/api-token.png)
> 
> 3. Generate a kubeconfig to access the rancher server using the [instructions.](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/api/quickstart)
> 
> 4. the cloud credential is stored as a secret in `cattle-global-data` namespace, and can be patched with new API token as follows. Please ensure that environment variable KUBECONFIG points to the generated kubeconfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can patch the expired Harvester cloud credentials to use a new authentication token.

1. Identify the expired cloud credentials for the cluster.

![identify-credentials](./imgs/identify-cloud-credential.png)

1. Generate a new Rancher authentication token with the value of **Scope** set to **No Scope**. You can customize the TTL for the token (for example, a value of `0` results in tokens that do not expire).

![api-token](./imgs/api-token.png)

1. Generate a kubeconfig to access the Rancher server using the [instructions](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/api/quickstart) in the Rancher documentation.

1. The cloud credential is stored as a secret in `cattle-global-data` namespace, and can be patched with new authentication token. Ensure that the environment variable `KUBECONFIG` points to the generated kubeconfig.
```

## Workaround

You can patch the expired Harvester cloud credentials to use a new authentication token.

1. Identify the expired cloud credentials for the cluster.

![identify-credentials](./imgs/identify-cloud-credential.png)

1. Generate a new Rancher authentication token with the value of **Scope** set to **No Scope**. You can customize the TTL for the token (for example, a value of `0` results in tokens that do not expire).

![api-token](./imgs/api-token.png)

1. Generate a kubeconfig to access the Rancher server using the [instructions](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/api/quickstart) in the Rancher documentation.

1. The cloud credential is stored as a secret in `cattle-global-data` namespace, and can be patched with new authentication token. Ensure that the environment variable `KUBECONFIG` points to the generated kubeconfig.

```shell
#!/bin/sh
CLOUD_CREDENTIAL_NAME=$1
API_TOKEN=$2

kubeconfig=$(kubectl get secret $CLOUD_CREDENTIAL_NAME -n cattle-global-data -o yaml |   yq '.data.harvestercredentialConfig-kubeconfigContent' | base64 -d | token=${API_TOKEN} yq -e '.users[0].user.token = env(token)' | base64 )

patch_file=$(mktemp)

cat > ${patch_file} <<EOF
data:

>   harvestercredentialConfig-kubeconfigContent: $kubeconfig

Reviewer 2: I did try this and it almost worked, but I had to manually quote the string and escape the line endings here:

``` 
data: xxxxxxxxxxx
   xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

=> 
``` 
data:   "xxxxxxxxxxxxxx\
     xxxxxxxxxxxxx\
     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
```

jq version: jq-1.6

Author: i have updated the script to include `-w0` when encoding the patched kubeconfig file. On MacOS, users will need to use gbase64

description: How to modify TTL for newly imported Harvester cloud credentials in Rancher 2.8.x.
slug: modify_harvester_cloud_credential_ttl
authors:
  - name: Gaurav Mehta
    title: Staff Software Engineer
    url: https://github.com/ibrokethecloud
    image_url: https://github.com/ibrokethecloud.png
tags: [harvester, cloud credentials, rancher]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Kubeconfig token expiry in Rancher 2.8.x

Rancher 2.8.x has introduced a new [kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/api/api-tokens#kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes) setting. As highlighted in the document the default value for this setting is 30 days.

A side effect of this issue, has been the expiry of kubeconfig tokens used by rancher in provisioning downstream clusters on Harvester.

When the cloud credential token expires, the end users cannot perform any further cluster management operations on downstream clusters on Harvester. An issue tracking the same is available [here.](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/44912)

**NOTE:** This only impacts Harvester cloud credentials created after installing or upgrading to Rancher 2.8.x

> ## Workaround

Reviewer 3: Overall, I'm a bit concerned about this workaround. Manually editing CRDs that haven't been migrated to the RK API is risky at best, and can produce undesired side-effects. Rather than re-editing the current token, I'm thinking that the better idea would be to generate a new kubeconfig and update the cloud credential accordingly. What do you think?

Reviewer 4: I concur with the concerns here, we should refrain from recommending users to manually update live (and privileged) credentials in production - this won't float in highly regulated sectors.

While a permanent solution is not available, I would recommend some automation that rotates the target secret every so often. That way we enforce TTL, while also removing the need of manual intervention.

We could use the Kubernetes native [CronJob](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) object, to run the scripts already contained within this KB. The CronJob would be tied to a `ServiceAccount` that only has the required permissions to do the token rotation - ideally bound to the precise resource names (if possible) it needs accessing/amending.

Author: the bigger issue as @m-ildefons also pointed out in his work around is that if we create a new credential, the name is dynamically generated, and users will need to go and cycle through all their provisioned `cluster.provisioning` crds and patch the `.spec.cloudCredentialSecretName` to the new cloud credential.

Reviewer 3: @ibrokethecloud I'm not sure that I understand your objection. The suggestion above is to update the cloud credential with a new kubeconfig - this would leave the cloud credential with the same name. Would you mind explaining your reasoning a bit more?

Reviewer 5: If I may add, the workaround of manually editing some fields should only be used in case nothing else works, because there are risks as mentioned by Michael and Paulo. Otherwise, generating a new kubeconfing and updating it in the credential should be the best option at the moment.

Perhaps, a new token type in Rancher with its own TTL setting for such scenarios, e.g., integration between services, should be evaluated as a proper long term solution.

There is a security reason for having an expiring TTL set, so we can avoid proliferation of long lived unused tokens, but there is also a valid use case for such long lived tokens for integrations, as I mentioned above.

Users can manually patch the token CRD associated with cloud credentials to avoid them from expiring by following these steps:

1. Identify harvester cloud credentials from the Rancher Cluster Management > Cloud Credentials page
![cloud_credentials](./imgs/cloud-credentials.png)

2. Using the kubeconfig of your local rancher cluster, identify the token associated with this credential by running the following command:
```shell
kubectl get secret cc-hcrbz -n cattle-global-data -o yaml | yq .data.harvestercredentialConfig-kubeconfigContent | base64 -d  | yq '.users[].user.token' | awk -F ":" '{print $1}'
kubeconfig-user-db8f54wftw
```

3. Edit the token CRD on local cluster, and set the following two fields `expiresAt` to "" and `ttl` to 0.
```shell
kubectl edit token kubeconfig-user-db8f54wftw
```

> 

Reviewer 6: I thought we could also provide the one-line command as below. WDYT?
e.g.:
You can also use the following command to patch these two fields.
```
kubectl patch token <token name> --type='json' -p='[{"op": "replace", "path": "/expiresAt", "value": ""}]'
```
```
kubectl patch token <token name> --type='json' -p='[{"op": "replace", "path": "/ttl", "value": 0}]'
```

---
title: Modifying TTL for Harvester Cloud Credential
description: How to modify TTL for newly imported Harvester cloud credentials in Rancher 2.8.x.
slug: modify_harvester_cloud_credential_ttl
authors:
  - name: Gaurav Mehta
    title: Staff Software Engineer
    url: https://github.com/ibrokethecloud
    image_url: https://github.com/ibrokethecloud.png
tags: [harvester, cloud credentials, rancher]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Kubeconfig token expiry in Rancher 2.8.x

Rancher 2.8.x has introduced a new [kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/api/api-tokens#kubeconfig-default-token-ttl-minutes) setting. As highlighted in the document the default value for this setting is 30 days.

A side effect of this issue, has been the expiry of kubeconfig tokens used by rancher in provisioning downstream clusters on Harvester.

> When the cloud credential token expires, the end users cannot perform any further cluster management operations on downstream clusters on Harvester. 

Reviewer 7: A duplicated statement.

When the cloud credential token expires, the end users cannot perform any further cluster management operations on downstream clusters on Harvester. An issue tracking the same is available [here.](https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/44912)

> **NOTE:** This only impacts Harvester cloud credentials created after installing or upgrading to Rancher 2.8.x

Reviewer 7: Does this issue also happen to the Rancher cluster upgrading from a previous version 2.7.x? I thought the original TTL value (0) should be kept as before after upgrading to 2.8 to prevent any regression caused by upgrade..

Author: clusters existing before upgrade to 2.7 retain their old ttl of 0 and are not impacted.

Reviewer 7: Upgrade to 2.7? Should be 2.8?

Author: you could have an import harvester cluster from 2.7 but no cloud credentials associated with this cluster. Or if for some reason new cloud credentials are created for harvester after upgrade to 2.8, the new tl would apply.

Reviewer 7: Yeah, clear after reading the notice again. All good.
